---
title: Robust Self-supervised Depth Estimation
summary: In this project, we improve the robustness of self-supervised depth estimation via proposing a set of robust constraints that are unified in the final loss.
tags: 
# - Deep Learning
date: "2020-07-15T00:00:00Z"

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ""

image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: Smart

links:
# - icon: twitter
#   icon_pack: fab
#   name: Follow
#   url: https://twitter.com/georgecushen
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides: ""
---
Self-supervised depth estimation enables to train the network by video sequences, which do not require groundtruth images. However, self-supervised methods are less robust especially under complicated real world dynamic scenes. To be more precise, 1) when trained on images with obvious brightness change, conventional photometric loss will mainly generate the false supervisory signals caused by the brightness difference, instead of generating the right signals caused by image synthesis error, 2) the pixel-wise image corresponding relations in self-supervised methods do not hold in non-static areas of the image. Thus when trained on images under
dynamic scenes, false supervisory signals will be produced due to the moving objects such as vehicles or pedestrians, 3) and most self-supervised methods estimate ego-motions only from image pairs, which lead to unstable estimations due to the absence of cross-frame information.

In this project, we aim to improve the robustness of self-supervised depth estimation by proposing a set of robust constraints during network traning. The gradient-based photometric loss is proposed to restrain the false supervisory signals generated by brightness changes. A combined selective mask (including the inter-loss mask and the gradient-loss mask) is proposed to filter out unreliable regions containing moving objects. A robust cycle-consistency constraint is proposed, which implicitly facilitate better depth estimation by constraining motion consistency. Experiments show the method outperforms the state-of-the-arts on KITTI dataset. 


>**Related Papers**
>1. [Enhancing Self-supervised Monocular Depth Estimation via Incorporating Robust Constraints](../../publication/depthDCE/)
